# SPECTRUM_v3.0.0.0
Mass spectrometry (MS)-based top-down proteomics (TDP) offers intact protein analysis towards a comprehensive characterization of proteoforms. However, ion losses during MS/MS fragmentation limit the efficiency of TDP search pipelines and make spectral interpretation challenging. In this work, we report a novel de novo-based complementary ion search (COINS) algorithm that estimates unreported complementary ions in TDP spectral data followed by their incorporation into the search process to augment proteoform characterization. Results from our experiments show that COINS significantly enhances the proteoform search performance. To evaluate the performance of COINS, we have developed three case studies using published datasets. Firstly, COINS reported a 1.56 fold increase in proteoforms along with a 75% improvement in proteoform spectral matches (PrSMs) count, at 1% FDR, using an Escherichia coli dataset. In terms of peptide sequence tags (PSTs), a 6.5 fold improvement was also observed. In the second case study, which aimed to evaluate the impact of COINS on post-translational modification (PTM) identification rate, a HeLa spectral dataset was searched and reported ~9.5% more PTMs. In the third case study, a Carbonic Anhydrase 2 (CA2) dataset, obtained using three different fragmentation techniques, was employed. The results exhibited a 27-38% increase in proteoform counts along with 19-31% enhancement in PrSMs. In terms of PSTs, a 67% increase was reported along with a one-fold improvement in PTM count. Summarily, COINS enhances the generation of de novo PSTs along with improving proteoform spectral matches which together can provide significantly enhanced proteoform identification rates in TDP.  
